README.md, before:

[![Go Actions Status](https://github.com/apigee/registry-viewer/workflows/Flutter/badge.svg)](https://github.com/apigee/registry-viewer/actions)

# Registry Viewer

This repository contains a graphical viewer for the
[Registry API](https://github.com/apigee/registry). The viewer is written with
[Flutter](https://flutter.dev), which allows it to be run on many platforms. It
is developed on the Linux, MacOS, and web platforms, and this repository
includes support for web deployments on Google Cloud Run.

## The Registry Viewer

The Registry Viewer allows API platform teams and other collectors of API
descriptions to view and curate API descriptions and metadata stored in a
registry. It is optimized for general browsing (vs. specific tasks), and is a
possible starting point for application-specific interfaces that manage and
govern APIs through their lifecycles.

Please tell us about your experience if you use it.

## The Implementation

The Registry Viewer is a Flutter application written in Dart. It can be run
locally and hosted on the web. One way to host the web version is in a
container deployed to services like
[Google Cloud Run](https://cloud.google.com/run). Currently it stores all
information directly in the Registry API (no other backend storage or service
is used). Users authenticate with Google IDs, and a file in the implementation
allows deployments to specify users and domains that are authorized to use the
viewer.

## Build Instructions

The following tools are needed to build this software:

- The Flutter development environment, release 1.25.0-5.0.pre.91 or later.
- protoc, the Protocol Buffer Compiler, version 3.10 or later.
- make, git, and other elements of common unix build environments.

This repository contains a Makefile that performs frequently-used tasks,
including building and deploying the viewer on
[Google Cloud Run](https://cloud.google.com/run).

## Generated Components

Platform-specific code is generally not included in the repo and should be
created by running `make create` in the root of this repo. This uses
`flutter create` to initialize the project.

Protocol Buffer support code is needed and is generated by the
[COMPILE-PROTOS.sh](tools/COMPILE-PROTOS.sh) script. This can be run by running
`make protos` at the repo root.

## Quickstart

The easiest way to try the Registry Viewer is to run the Linux build with
`make linux`. This build gets its server address and authorization credentials
from environment variables.

**If you are running the Registry Server on Google Cloud Run**, you can set
these variables by running `source auth/CLOUDRUN.sh` from the
[github.com/apigee/registry](https://github.com/apigee/registry) repo. There's
a version of this repo checked out in `third_party`, so one way to get
credentials would be to run the following:

`source third_party/registry/auth/CLOUDRUN.sh`.

**If you are running the Registry Server locally**, you can set these variables
by running `source auth/LOCAL.sh` from the
[github.com/apigee/registry](https://github.com/apigee/registry) repo. Using
the version checked out in `third_party`, you could run the following:

`source third_party/registry/auth/LOCAL.sh`.

**Once you have set up your credentials**, build and run the viewer with
`make linux`.

## Deploying the Registry Viewer with Google Cloud Run

The Registry Viewer can be built for the web and deployed like any Flutter web
application. This project contains support for deploying on
[Google Cloud Run](https://cloud.google.com/run). To support this, the
[Makefile](Makefile) contains targets that build a Docker image and that deploy
it to Google Cloud Run. Both use the `gcloud` command, which should be
authenticated and configured for the project where the services should be run.

Requirements:

- Both targets require the [gcloud](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud)
  command, which is part of the
  [Google Cloud SDK](https://cloud.google.com/sdk).

- If not already done, `gcloud auth login` gets user credentials for subsequent
  `gcloud` operations and `gcloud config set project PROJECT_ID` can be used to
  set your project ID to the one where you plan to host your servce.

- The Makefile gets your project ID from the `REGISTRY_PROJECT_IDENTIFIER`
  environment variable. This can be set automatically by running
  `source auth/CLOUDRUN.sh`.

`make build` uses [Google Cloud Build](https://cloud.google.com/cloud-build) to
build a container containing a simple Go web server and the compiled Registry
Viewer application. The container is stored in
[Google Container Registry](https://cloud.google.com/container-registry).

`make deploy` deploys that container on
[Google Cloud Run](https://cloud.google.com/run).

When deploying to Cloud Run for the first time, you will be asked a few
questions, including this one:

`Allow unauthenticated invocations to [registry-backend] (y/N)?`

You will need to answer "y" to be able to access your application.

## Configuring web builds

Web builds of the Registry Viewer require two configuration strings that are
specified as meta tags in [registry/web/index.html](registry/web/index.html):

- `google-signin-client_id` is the OAuth Client ID used by the
  [Google Signin](https://pub.dev/packages/google_sign_in) package to identify
  your client application. Helpful instructions for creating your application
  ID are [here](https://dev.to/happyharis/flutter-web-google-sign-in-42bb) and
  web-specific package documentation is
  [here](https://pub.dev/packages/google_sign_in_web). Application ID creation
  includes setting authorized JavaScript origins to enable your implementation
  to call the
  [Google Signin API](https://developers.google.com/identity/sign-in/web).

- `registry-server` is the URL of your Registry API server (backend). Note that
  because web deployments run in browsers, a
  [grpc-web](https://github.com/grpc/grpc-web) interface to the Registry API is
  required. To support this, the [registry](https://github.com/apigee/registry)
  distribution includes
  [Envoy configuration](https://github.com/apigee/registry/tree/main/deployments/envoy)
  that allows Envoy to proxy grpc-web connections and the Cloud Run deployments
  supported by the
  [registry Makefile](https://github.com/apigee/registry/blob/main/Makefile)
  include this configured proxy.

The Google Signin component provides ids of authenticated users. To authorize
these users, adjust the variables in
[registry/lib/authorizations.dart](registry/lib/authorizations.dart).

## License

This software is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0. See
[LICENSE](LICENSE) for the full license text.

## Disclaimer

This is not an official Google product. Issues filed on Github are not subject
to service level agreements (SLAs) and responses should be assumed to be on an
ad-hoc volunteer basis.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) for notes
on how to contribute to this project.

Commit message:

styling and structural improvements (#18)
remove raw proto dumps from detail views
add scroll controllers to fix scrolling problems
split timestamps into two rows
use REGISTRY_SERVER and GOOGLE_AUTH_CLIENTID environment variables

README.md, after:

[![Go Actions Status](https://github.com/apigee/registry-viewer/workflows/Flutter/badge.svg)](https://github.com/apigee/registry-viewer/actions)

# Registry Viewer

This repository contains a graphical viewer for the
[Registry API](https://github.com/apigee/registry). The viewer is written with
[Flutter](https://flutter.dev), which allows it to be run on many platforms. It
is developed on the Linux, MacOS, and web platforms, and this repository
includes support for web deployments on Google Cloud Run.

## The Registry Viewer

The Registry Viewer allows API platform teams and other collectors of API
descriptions to view and curate API descriptions and metadata stored in a
registry. It is optimized for general browsing (vs. specific tasks), and is a
possible starting point for application-specific interfaces that manage and
govern APIs through their lifecycles.

Please tell us about your experience if you use it.

## The Implementation

The Registry Viewer is a Flutter application written in Dart. It can be run
locally and hosted on the web. One way to host the web version is in a
container deployed to services like
[Google Cloud Run](https://cloud.google.com/run). Currently it stores all
information directly in the Registry API (no other backend storage or service
is used). Users authenticate with Google IDs, and a file in the implementation
allows deployments to specify users and domains that are authorized to use the
viewer.

## Build Instructions

The following tools are needed to build this software:

- The Flutter development environment, release 1.25.0-5.0.pre.91 or later.
- protoc, the Protocol Buffer Compiler, version 3.10 or later.
- make, git, and other elements of common unix build environments.

This repository contains a Makefile that performs frequently-used tasks,
including building and deploying the viewer on
[Google Cloud Run](https://cloud.google.com/run).

## Generated Components

Platform-specific code is generally not included in the repo and should be
created by running `make create` in the root of this repo. This uses
`flutter create` to initialize the project.

Protocol Buffer support code is needed and is generated by the
[COMPILE-PROTOS.sh](tools/COMPILE-PROTOS.sh) script. This can be run by running
`make protos` at the repo root.

## Quickstart

The easiest way to try the Registry Viewer is to run the Linux build with
`make linux`. This build gets its server address and authorization credentials
from environment variables.

**If you are running the Registry Server on Google Cloud Run**, you can set
these variables by running `source auth/CLOUDRUN.sh` from the
[github.com/apigee/registry](https://github.com/apigee/registry) repo. There's
a version of this repo checked out in `third_party`, so one way to get
credentials would be to run the following:

`source third_party/registry/auth/CLOUDRUN.sh`.

**If you are running the Registry Server locally**, you can set these variables
by running `source auth/LOCAL.sh` from the
[github.com/apigee/registry](https://github.com/apigee/registry) repo. Using
the version checked out in `third_party`, you could run the following:

`source third_party/registry/auth/LOCAL.sh`.

**Once you have set up your credentials**, build and run the viewer with
`make linux`.

## Deploying the Registry Viewer with Google Cloud Run

The Registry Viewer can be built for the web and deployed like any Flutter web
application. This project contains support for deploying on
[Google Cloud Run](https://cloud.google.com/run). To support this, the
[Makefile](Makefile) contains targets that build a Docker image and that deploy
it to Google Cloud Run. Both use the `gcloud` command, which should be
authenticated and configured for the project where the services should be run.

Requirements:

- Both targets require the [gcloud](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud)
  command, which is part of the
  [Google Cloud SDK](https://cloud.google.com/sdk).

- If not already done, `gcloud auth login` gets user credentials for subsequent
  `gcloud` operations and `gcloud config set project PROJECT_ID` can be used to
  set your project ID to the one where you plan to host your servce.

- The Makefile gets your project ID from the `REGISTRY_PROJECT_IDENTIFIER`
  environment variable. This can be set automatically by running
  `source auth/CLOUDRUN.sh`.

`make build` uses [Google Cloud Build](https://cloud.google.com/cloud-build) to
build a container containing a simple Go web server and the compiled Registry
Viewer application. The container is stored in
[Google Container Registry](https://cloud.google.com/container-registry).

`make deploy` deploys that container on
[Google Cloud Run](https://cloud.google.com/run).

When deploying to Cloud Run for the first time, you will be asked a few
questions, including this one:

`Allow unauthenticated invocations to [registry-backend] (y/N)?`

You will need to answer "y" to be able to access your application.

You will also need to set two environment variables in your Cloud Run
environment (described below).

## Configuring web builds

Web builds of the Registry Viewer require two configuration strings that are
specified as meta tags in [registry/web/index.html](registry/web/index.html).
Both can be set using environment variables in the container running the web
server:

- `google-signin-client_id` (environment variable `GOOGLE_SIGNIN_CLIENTID`) is
  the OAuth Client ID used by the
  [Google Signin](https://pub.dev/packages/google_sign_in) package to identify
  your client application. Helpful instructions for creating your application
  ID are [here](https://dev.to/happyharis/flutter-web-google-sign-in-42bb) and
  web-specific package documentation is
  [here](https://pub.dev/packages/google_sign_in_web). Application ID creation
  includes setting authorized JavaScript origins to enable your implementation
  to call the
  [Google Signin API](https://developers.google.com/identity/sign-in/web).

- `registry-server` (environment variable `REGISTRY_SERVER`) is the URL of your
  Registry API server (backend). Note that because web deployments run in
  browsers, a [grpc-web](https://github.com/grpc/grpc-web) interface to the
  Registry API is required. To support this, the
  [registry](https://github.com/apigee/registry) distribution includes
  [Envoy configuration](https://github.com/apigee/registry/tree/main/deployments/envoy)
  that allows Envoy to proxy grpc-web connections and the Cloud Run deployments
  supported by the
  [registry Makefile](https://github.com/apigee/registry/blob/main/Makefile)
  include this configured proxy.

The Google Signin component provides ids of authenticated users. To authorize
these users, adjust the variables in
[registry/lib/authorizations.dart](registry/lib/authorizations.dart).

## License

This software is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0. See
[LICENSE](LICENSE) for the full license text.

## Disclaimer

This is not an official Google product. Issues filed on Github are not subject
to service level agreements (SLAs) and responses should be assumed to be on an
ad-hoc volunteer basis.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) for notes
on how to contribute to this project.
